we want to know we have a question
question and you don't need to feel shy
about no really it's natural Shane
Dawson and Lisa Schwartz aka Liz bug are
one of the most lovable youtube couples
back in 2014
did you started seeing each other in
2011 and soon they started making videos
together where she would wax Shane's
back her the two would do the chapstick
challenge
it was totally so adorable i sat down
with Lisa and I told her I was very
sexually confused and it was the hardest
thing I've ever done
and and it was very sad because I didn't
want her to think that I was gay and
then I was hiding it from her and that I
was using her as like a beard because
that's what the whole internet probably
things what dear said Teresa is a user
too
he said Teresa showed him Shane's budget
book because she was upset that Shane
was taking Lisa on vacations and
first-class flights Teresa allegedly
said she felt like Lisa was using Shane
pedir called out Teresa and said she
lived in Shane's big house watching
reality TV series and didn't pay any
bills pedir said Lisa deserved the
first-class flights because Shane was
allegedly using her he don't even like
her so you may as well let her get a
flight out of this if she's gonna be his
beard so first-class flights seem like a
small price to pay for sleeping with a
gay man
[Music]
but I also don't want to label myself
and and just now from now on everybody's
like Oh Shane the bisexual guy or like I
don't want to make a movie where I have
a love interest who's a girl and then
have all the people be like well I don't
believe it because he's by secular look
I don't know well maybe we could do the
ex point for an ex girlfriend candy
eating challenge crush like we did that
one time yeah everything literally the
last four years of my life yeah so we
want to talk to you we want to explain
what's a sympathy is an analytical tool
understanding people doesn't mean you
make excuses for them and using sympathy
to understand others may just be the
first step on the way to refuting
mistakes they've made it drawing their
attention to just how bad and evil and
wrong some of the decisions they've made
really are when I encourage people my
audience to have sympathy for the devil
it's not because I want you to actually
make excuses for people like Shane
Dawson and believe me when you start to
get out there in the world there are
people far far worse than Shane Dawson
I had an employer back when I lived and
worked in Thailand he was a white
Western male who had lived in Thailand
for many many years and he really
enjoyed telling people his philosophical
excuses as for why he felt there was
nothing ethically wrong with much much
older men having sex with teenage
prostitutes something that is ubiquitous
in Thailand whether it is legal illegal
or barely legal and I think before he
met me
he'd kind of played this game this
parlor trick he'd had this little debate
so many times that he thought he was
already prepared for every possible
comeback every possible answer whether
it be shocked or sympathetic but he was
not prepared at all for what I said to
him I let him say his piece I let him
sit out his little justification for why
he felt from his perspective there was
nothing wrong with us and I know his
argument was that it ought to be legal
whenever the girl had completed puberty
meaning whenever she had a regular
menstrual cycle which you know could be
16 but could be 13 or some happens at
all different ages rolling field
ridiculous ridiculous
that was his ethical philosophical
position and what I said to him was this
what about you
what about when you were a teenage boy
do you think that you could apply this
same philosophy to yourself do you think
that you could live with it if you had
started turning tricks I'm a
heterosexual male talking to another
dude I know to be heterosexual and I'm
saying to him how do you think you would
have coped for the rest of your life if
you started being sexually exploited
this way by older men when you were a
teenager and he crumbled he didn't have
a goddamn thing to say as I've already
disclosed I happen to be a heterosexual
male and I'd like I'd like to take a
moment to reach out to the other
heterosexual males in the audience and
ask them just to think through a few
steps of this hypothetical exercise
we've gotten very comfortable with this
slang term living in the closet and we
have other cute terms like wearing a
beard all these all these little pieces
of jargon that make us feel comfortable
with something that's actually
profoundly psychologically disturbing
I'm a heterosexual male okay but I have
enough imagination I have enough
sympathy to really think through how
profoundly disturbing it is for
homosexuals to live a life that is fake
straight and when you look at Shane
Dawson when you look at these grotesque
over-the-top performances he put on for
years pretending to be straight and in
my opinion I think he's still pretending
to be a lot of things but he isn't I
think he's still wearing a beard to use
these terms I invite you to think
sympathetically if you're a heterosexual
man how much would it mess you up what
would be the long-term consequences for
you if you as a straight man lived in an
apartment with a gay lover if you had to
go through the act of having gay sex
once a week or twice a week if you had
to go through the act of pretending to
be gay not just in your personal life
not just in front of your family but
here on YouTube on social media if your
career required you to bend your sexual
orientation the other way and think of
the long-term consequences
[Music]
I'm not making any excuses for Shane
Dawson whatsoever but when I look at his
career when I look at all the aberrant
behavior all the crises he's created for
himself and the crises he's still
dealing with I see the root cause of the
problem as being the unbelievable stress
and psychological damage done by being
fake straight when deep down inside